**Computer Networks Assignment**

The 2 PRNGs we are using are -

**1. Blum Blum Shub -**

PRNG which was devised by Lenore Blum, Manuel Blum and Michael Shub in 1986,

It generates number x[n + 1] by the equation -
X[n + 1] = (x[n] \* x[n]) % M, for n >= 1
Where, M = p \* q, where p, q are safe prime numbers and gcd((p - 3) / 2,
(q - 3) / 2) is as minimum as possible.
X[0] is selected such that it is coprime with p and q and is not 0 or 1.

In our case -
P = 809
Q = 911
X[0] = 18
N = 1000

**2. Lagged Fibonacci Generator -**

It is an extension to Fibonacci sequence(x[n] = x[n - 1] + x[n - 2]) .

The random number generated by this generator follow the equation -
X[n] = (x[n - i] + x[n - j]) % Mod, 
where i and j are already defined and x is pre-populated with j elements, assuming j > i.

Parameters used -
I = 3
J = 7
Mod = 1145

We have initialised x with 12 random values for a better random generation of numbers using the above equation.
For every random number that is created, all the elements of the list (lfg) are shifted one position to the left and the new number generated is stored at the end of the list.

The two Randomness tests used are -

1. **Runs test -**

Null and alternative hypothesis -
H0 (null): Data is produced randomly
H1 (alternative): Data is not produced randomly
Implemented using runstest\_1samp() function available in statsmodels library.

Input - list of random numbers produced
Output - z-test statistic and p-value.
Result Verification - Whenever the p-value is greater than or equal to 0.05(a threshold), we have to accept the null hypothesis and therefore numbers are randomly generated.

2. **Chi-Square test -**

Null and alternative hypothesis -
H0 (null): Data is produced randomly
H1 (alternative): Data is not produced randomly
Implemented using chisquare() function available in scipy.stats library.
We first need to calculate the frequency of each random number that is generated and that list of frequencies is taken as input by this chi-square function.

Input - List containing the frequency count of the unique entries in randomly generated
Output - z-test statistic and the p-value.
Result Verification - Whenever the p-value is greater than or equal to 0.05(a threshold) we have to accept the null hypothesis and therefore numbers are randomly generated.

**Code Implementation -**

We have first implemented Blum Blum Shub followed by Lagged Fibonacci generator. We first select p and q by iterating to the primes in till 2000 and selecting the best possible pair according to the 3 requirements as explained in the above explantation. On evaluating the output of the code, p and q turns out ot be 809 and 911. Then, we choose the mod and seed value and evaluate the answer
Fro the Lagged Fibonacci part, pre-populate the required lfg list and set i and j to 3 and 7 respectively and Mod to 1145 and evaluate the answer. The number of generated random numbers are 1000.

**Results -**

On running Blum Blum Shub PRNG,
Runs Test p val = 0.33614682139644303, which is greater than 0.05, Thus it fails to reject Null Hypothesis
Chi-Square test p val = 0.9962944321907298, which is also greater than 0.05, It also fails to reject the Null hypothesis.
Hence the numbers are randomly generated.

On running Lagged Fibonacci Generator PRNG,
Runs Test p val = 0.4118560797612164, which is greater than 0.05, Thus it fails to reject Null Hypothesis
Chi-Square test p val = 0.9672389419082345, which is also greater than 0.05, It also fails to reject the Null hypothesis.
Hence the numbers are randomly generated.
